Folco went home after lunch, but Pippin remained behind. Frodo was restless and anxious, listening in vain for a sound of Gandalf. 
They are at first sight at any rate, laughed Pippin with sudden relief after reading Gandalf's letter. 
I wonder if old Gandalf has been here, he said to Pippin, whoever it was put this stuff here meant to come back it seems.
Gandalf has been saying many cheerful things like that, said Pippin, he thinks I need keeping in order but it seems impossible, somehow, to feel gloomy or depressed in this place, I feel I could sing, if I knew the right song for the occasion.
Then you certainly will not be chosen, Peregrin Took, said Gandalf, looking in through the window, which was near the ground, but you are all worrying yourselves unnecessarily, nothing is decided yet.
Neither does Frodo, said Gandalf, unexpectedly supporting Pippin, nor do any of us see clearly, it is true that if these hobbits understood the danger, they would not dare to go. 
Knock on the doors with your head, Pippin, said Gandalf, but if that does not shatter them, and I am allowed a little peace from foolish questions, I will seek for the opening words.
Why doesn't Gandalf do something quick, said Pippin.
What's that, cried Gandalf, he was relieved when Pippin confessed what he had done, but he was angry, and Pippin could see his eye glinting, fool of a Took, he growled, this is a serious journey, not a hobbit walking-party, throw yourself in next time, and then you will be no further nuisance, now be quiet!
Pippin sat miserably by the door in the pitch dark, but he kept on turning round, fearing that some unknown thing would crawl up out of the well, he wished he could cover the hole, if only with a blanket, but he dared not move or go near it, even though Gandalf seemed to be asleep.
He halted just by us and looked down at us Gandalf! I said at last but my voice was only a whisper, did he say, hullo, Pippin this is a pleasant surprise, no, indeed, he said.
Get up, you tom-fool of a Took, where in the name of wonder in all this ruin is Treebeard?
I have known of Gandalf all my short life said, as you might say and lately I have travelled far with him but there is much to read in that book, and I cannot claim to have seen more than a page or two, yet perhaps I know him as well as any but a few.
You can try Gandalf. He’s not so close as he used to be, though he laughs now more than he talks.
He knelt by Pippin’s body: the hobbit was lying on his back, rigid, with unseeing eyes staring up at the sky, the devilry what mischief has he done—to himself, and to all of us?” The wizard’s face was drawn and haggard.
Say no more you have taken no harm, there is no lie in your eyes, as I feared but he did not speak long with you, a fool, but an honest fool, you remain, Peregrin Took, wiser ones might have done worse in such a pass.
To keep you out of mischief and if you do not like being here, you can remember that you brought it on yourself.
For you are now sworn to his service, I do not know what put it into your head, or your heart, to do that but it was well done, I did not hinder it, for generous deed should not be checked by cold counsel.
Maybe even your foolishness helped, my lad.