But his closest friends were Peregrin Took (usually called Pippin), and Merry Brandybuck (his real name was Meriadoc, but that was seldom remembered).  
Merry and Pippin suspected that he visited the Elves at times, as Bilbo had done.
There was Fredegar Bolger and Folco Boffin, and of course his special friends Pippin Took and Merry Brandybuck.
Folco went home after lunch, but Pippin remained behind. Frodo was restless and anxious, listening in vain for a sound of Gandalf. 
He took his own tea with Pippin and Sam Gamgee in the kitchen. It had been officially announced that Sam was coming to Buckland.
Pippin and Sam strapped up their three packs and piled them in the porch. 
Pippin went out for a last stroll in the garden.
Pippin was sitting on his pack in the porch.
No, you don't, Sam said Pippin, it is good for him, he's got nothing except what he ordered us to pack.
Then they marched on in silence, and Pippin began to lag behind, at last, as they began to climb a steep slope, he stopped and yawned.
What's beautiful about it said Pippin, peering over the edge of his blanket with one eye.
Frodo stripped the blankets from Pippin and rolled him over, and then walked off to the edge of the wood.
When he returned Sam and Pippin had got a good fire going.
Water, shouted Pippin, Where's the water.
We thought you had gone to find some, said Pippin, busy setting out the food, and cups, You had better go now.
The road goes on for ever, said Pippin, but I can't without a rest,t is high time for lunch.
Not that I ever heard, said Pippin.
That sounds like a bit of old Bilbo's rhyming, said Pippin, or is it one of your imitations, It does not sound altogether encouraging.
Well, the Road won't sweep me anywhere for an hour at least, said Pippin, unslinging his pack.
Pippin and Sam had remained flat in the grass, and had seen nothing, so Frodo described the rider and his strange behaviour.
But what has one of the Big People got to do with us, said Pippin, and what is he doing in this part of the world?
Still, there may be no connexion between this rider and the Gaffer's stranger, said Pippin, we left Hobbiton secretly enough, and I don't see how he could have followed us.
Then you know or guess something about this rider, said Pippin who had caught the muttered words.
And now to bed, And now to bed, sang Pippin in a high voice.
Very well, said Pippin, but don't forget the sniffing!
Sam and Pippin crouched behind a large tree-bole, while Frodo crept back a few yards towards the lane.
O Wise People, interrupted Pippin eagerly, tell us about the Black Riders!
Because two Black Riders have overtaken us today, or one has done so twice, said Pippin, only a little while ago he slipped away as you drew near.
O Fair Folk, this is good fortune beyond my hope, said Pippin.
Pippin soon began to feel sleepy, and staggered once or twice, but each time a tall Elf at his side put out his arm and saved him from a fall. 
Pippin fell asleep, pillowed on a green hillock.
Pippin sat up and rubbed his eyes, he shivered, there is a fire in the hall, and food for hungry guests, said an Elf standing before him.
Pippin afterwards recalled little of either food or drink, for his mind was filled with the light upon the elf-faces, and the sound of voices so various and so beautiful that he felt in a waking dream.
After a while Pippin fell fast asleep, and was lifted up and borne away to a bower under the trees, there he was laid upon a soft bed and slept the rest of the night away.
When Pippin had gone, he came and sat curled up at Frodo's feet, where at last he nodded and closed his eyes.
I will sleep now, he said, and the Elf led him to a bower beside Pippin, and he threw himself upon a bed and fell at once into a dreamless slumber.
Sam was sitting on the grass near the edge of the wood, Pippin was standing studying the sky and weather.
They have left us fruit and drink, and bread, said Pippin, come and have your breakfast, the bread tastes almost as good as it did last night, I did not want to leave you any, but Sam insisted.
What is the plan for today, asked Pippin.
Do you think we shall see anything of those Riders, asked Pippin cheerfully, under the morning sun the prospect of seeing a whole troop of them did not seem very alarming to him.
Good heavens, said Pippin, at breakfast?
The merry voice of Pippin came to him, he was running on the green turf and singing.
Frodo finished his breakfast in silence, then standing up he looked over the land ahead, and called to Pippin.
All ready to start, he said as Pippin ran up, we must be getting off at once, we slept late and there are a good many miles to go.
You slept late, you mean, said Pippin, I was up long before and we are only waiting for you to finish eating and thinking.
Then you are going to fly, said Pippin, you won't cut straight on foot anywhere in this country.
Short cuts make long delays,argued Pippin, the country is rough round here, and there are bogs and all kinds of difficulties down in the Marish, I know the land in these parts and if you are worrying about Black Riders, I can't see that it is any worse meeting them on a road than in a wood or a field.
Then if we are going to toil through bog and briar, let's go now, said Pippin.
First check, said Pippin, smiling grimly.
Whew, he said to Pippin, we were both right, the short cut has gone crooked already.
Why, this is the Stock-brook, said Pippin, if we are going to try and get back on to our course, we must cross at once and bear right.
After half an hour Pippin said: I hope we have not turned too much towards the south, and are not walking longwise through this wood, it is not a very broad belt, I should have said no more than a mile at the widest and we ought to have been through it by now.
Sam and Pippin sat near, and they began to hum, and then to sing softly.
And what do you think that was, Pippin asked at last, trying to speak lightly, but quavering a little, if it was a bird, it was one that I never heard in the Shire before.
Pippin stopped, I know these fields and this gate, he said, this is Bamfurlong, old Farmer Maggot's land.
One trouble after another, said Frodo, looking nearly as much alarmed as if Pippin had declared the lane was the slot leading to a dragon's den.
What's wrong with old Maggot, asked Pippin, he's a good friend to all the Brandy bucks, of course he's a terror to trespassers, and keeps ferocious dogs but after all, folk down here are near the border and have to be more on their guard.
Pippin laughed, well, it's time you made it up, especially if you are coming back to live in Buckland, Old Maggot is really a stout fellow if you leave his mushrooms alone, let's get into the lane and then we shan't be trespassing, if we meet him, I'll do the talking.
Frodo and Sam stopped dead, but Pippin walked on a few paces, they took no notice of Pippin but Sam shrank against the wall, while two wolvish-looking dogs sniffed at him suspiciously.
Good afternoon, Mr. Maggot, said Pippin.
The farmer looked at him closely, well, if it isn't Master Pippin  MrPeregrin Took, I should say!, he cried, changing from a scowl to a grin, it's a long time since I saw you round here, t's lucky for you that I know you.
What fellow do you mean, asked Pippin.
Pippin introduced the other two to the farmer, Mr Frodo Baggins, he said.
Beside him Pippin was nodding towards sleep.
Merry was tying it up, and Pippin was already leading the pony up the path.
All right, you and Pippin know your way.
A bath, cried Pippin, O blessed Meriadoc.
The voice of Pippin was suddenly lifted up above the others in one of Bilbo's favourite bath-songs.
It appeared that a lot of Pippin's bath had imitated a fountain and leaped on high.
Yes we shall, cried Pippin.
We have all been scared, said Pippin after a pause, in which Frodo stared at the fire and did not speak.
Black figures riding on black horses, answered Pippin, if Frodo won't talk, I will tell you the whole tale from the beginning.
Cousin Frodo has been very close, said Pippin, but the time has come for him to open out, so far we have been given nothing more to go on than Farmer Maggot's guess that it has something to do with old Bilbo's treasure.
It's coming out in a minute, whispered Pippin to Merry, Merry nodded.
Dear old Frodo, said Pippin, did you really think you had thrown dust in all our eyes?
You do not understand, said Pippin, you must go and therefore we must, too, Merry and I are coming with you. 
Merry and Pippin began a song, which they had apparently got ready for the occasion.
That was poetry,said Pippin, do you really mean to start before the break of day?
Well, that's that, said Pippin, on the whole I would rather have our job than Fatty's waiting here till Black Riders come.
Even Pippin is up. 
Are the stories about it true, asked Pippin.
Is it only the trees that are dangerous, asked Pippin.
Pippin suddenly felt that he could not bear it any longer, and without warning let out a shout, Oi, Oi, he cried,I am not going to do anything, just let me pass through, will you!
Pippin noticed it, it has not taken you long to lose us, he said, but at that moment Merry gave a whistle of relief and pointed ahead.
I dare say, said Pippin, that is, if the track goes on so far, and does not simply lead us into a bog and leave us there, who made the track, do you suppose, and why, I am sure it was not for our benefit, I am getting very suspicious of this Forest and everything in it, and I begin to believe all the stories about it and have you any idea how far eastward we should have to go?
Pippin fell forward on to his knees.
Merry and Pippin dragged themselves forward and lay down with their backs to the willow-trunk. 
Pippin had vanished. 
Frodo and Sam beat first upon the tree-trunk where Pippin had lain. 
We might succeed in roasting Pippin alive inside.
A loud scream came from Merry, and from far inside the tree they heard Pippin give a muffled yell.
There was a tearing creak and the other crack split open, and out of it Pippin sprang, as if he had been kicked. 
No, don't, said Merry and Pippin together, sitting suddenly upright, not now, not until the morning!
At his side Pippin lay dreaming pleasantly but a change came over his dreams and he turned and groaned, suddenly he woke or thought he had waked, and yet still heard in the darkness the sound that had disturbed his dream.
Pippin looked out of the western window, down into a pool of mist. 
Sam was behind him, and after him came Pippin, and then Merry. 
What do you mean, asked Pippin, looking at him, half puzzled and half amused, why not?
Do you think, asked Pippin hesitatingly, do you think we may be pursued, tonight?
All right, said Pippin, mind yourself, don't get lost, and don't forget that it is safer indoors!
They were more interested in Sam and Pippin, who were now feeling quite at home, and were chatting gaily about events in the Shire. 
Pippin roused a good deal of laughter with an account of the collapse of the roof of the Town Hole in Michel Delving.
His attention seemed suddenly to be fixed on Pippin. 
Pippin was evidently much enjoying the attention he was getting, and had become quite forgetful of their danger. 
The attention of Pippin's audience was disturbed. 
All the company drew away from Pippin and Sam, who found themselves left alone in a comer.
Hallo, said Pippin, who are you, and what do you want?
Pippin fidgeted and looked uncomfortable.
Pippin chuckled.
Continued Mr Butterbur with a glance at Pippin, but this one is taller than some and fairer than most, and he has a cleft in his chin.
They are at first sight at any rate, laughed Pippin with sudden relief after reading Gandalf's letter. 
Pippin subsided.
Pippin yawned, I am sorry, he said, but I am dead tired, in spite of all the danger and worry I must go to bed, or sleep where I sit. 
Pippin laughed, very life-like, he said, but what will happen when they have penetrated the disguise?
As much as we must, said Pippin with a sinking heart, but trying to show that he was tougher than he looked or felt.
Not a short cut, I hope, said Pippin, our last short cut through woods nearly ended in disaster.
I am being eaten alive, cried Pippin, midgewater, there are more midges than water!
Pippin declared that Frodo was looking twice the hobbit that he had been.
Going to Mordor, cried Pippin, I hope it won't come to that!
I wonder if old Gandalf has been here, he said to Pippin, whoever it was put this stuff here meant to come back it seems.
Hush, whispered Strider, what's that, gasped Pippin at the same moment.
Terror overcame Pippin and Merry, and they threw themselves flat on the ground.
Then he ordered Pippin and Merry to heat as much water as they could in their small kettles, and to bathe the wound with it. 
Pippin was a little ahead of the others, suddenly he turned round and called to them, there is a path here, he cried.
Surely this is a troll-hole, if ever there was one, said Pippin, come out, you two, and let us get away, now we know who made the path and we had better get off it quick.
Pippin, not liking to show Strider that he was still afraid, went on ahead with Merry. 
But they had not gone very far before Pippin came running back, followed by Merry, they both looked terrified.
There are trolls, Pippin panted, down in a clearing in the woods not far below, we got a sight of them through the tree-trunks, they are very large!
I had no idea we were anywhere near the place, said Pippin, he knew the story well.
Where did you come by that, Sam, asked Pippin, I've never heard those words before.
Hurray, cried Pippin, springing up, here is our noble cousin, make way for Frodo, Lord of the Ring!
Gandalf has been saying many cheerful things like that, said Pippin, he thinks I need keeping in order but it seems impossible, somehow, to feel gloomy or depressed in this place, I feel I could sing, if I knew the right song for the occasion.
That will soon be cured, said Pippin, you have shown your usual cunning in getting up just in time for a meal.
Merry and Pippin were indignant when they heard that Sam had crept into the Council, and had been chosen as Frodo's companion.
It's most unfair, said Pippin, instead of throwing him out, and clapping him in chains, Elrond goes and rewards him for his cheek!
That's what I meant, said Pippin, we hobbits ought to stick together, and we will, I shall go, unless they chain me up and there must be someone with intelligence in the party.
Then you certainly will not be chosen, Peregrin Took, said Gandalf, looking in through the window, which was near the ground, but you are all worrying yourselves unnecessarily, nothing is decided yet.
Nothing decided, cried Pippin, then what were you all doing, you were shut up for hours.
But that will leave no place for us, cried Pippin in dismay, we don't want to be left behind, we want to go with Frodo.
Neither does Frodo, said Gandalf, unexpectedly supporting Pippin, nor do any of us see clearly, it is true that if these hobbits understood the danger, they would not dare to go. 
Then, Master Elrond, you will have to lock me in prison, or send me home tied in a sack, said Pippin, for otherwise I shall follow the Company.
He gave me a look as plain as Mr Pippin could speak it.
But the mountains are ahead of us, said Pippin, we must have turned eastwards in the night.
Yes I did, sometimes, said Pippin, but I don't remember them, Frodo has a better head for that sort of thing.
Well if that isn't a plague and a nuisance, said Pippin, the news: no fire, and a move again by night, had been broken to him, as soon as he woke in the late afternoon. 
Pippin was dragging behind, even Gimli, as stout as any dwarf could be, was grumbling as he trudged.
But what can we do, cried Pippin miserably, he was leaning on Merry and Frodo, and he was shivering.
But how are we to get down there, even if you have cut through the drift, said Pippin, voicing the thought of all the hobbits.
Pippin marvelled at his strength, seeing the passage that he had already forced with no other tool than his great limbs.
Pippin's face brightened visibly at the mere mention of return to Rivendell.
And I don't wish to enter it even once, said Pippin.
I wish I had taken Elrond's advice, muttered Pippin to Sam, I am no good after all. 
My heart's right down in my toes, Mr Pippin, said Sam, but we aren't etten yet, and there are some stout folk here with us. 
What did I tell you, Mr Pippin, said Sam, wolves won't get him, that was an eye-opener, and no mistake, nearly singed the hair off my head!
What are you going to do then, asked Pippin, undaunted by the wizard's bristling brows.
Knock on the doors with your head, Pippin, said Gandalf, but if that does not shatter them, and I am allowed a little peace from foolish questions, I will seek for the opening words.
Why doesn't Gandalf do something quick, said Pippin.
The widest was more than seven feet across, and it was long before Pippin could summon enough courage to leap over the dreadful gap. 
Pippin felt curiously attracted by the well, while the others were unrolling blankets and making beds against the walls of the chamber, as far as possible from the hole in the floor, he crept to the edge and peered over, a chill air seemed to strike his face, rising from invisible depths and moved by a sudden impulse he groped for a loose stone, and let it drop, he felt his heart beat many times before there was any sound. 
What's that, cried Gandalf, he was relieved when Pippin confessed what he had done, but he was angry, and Pippin could see his eye glinting, fool of a Took, he growled, this is a serious journey, not a hobbit walking-party, throw yourself in next time, and then you will be no further nuisance, now be quiet!
You, Pippin, can go on the first watch, as a reward, he growled, as he rolled himself in a blanket.
Pippin sat miserably by the door in the pitch dark, but he kept on turning round, fearing that some unknown thing would crawl up out of the well, he wished he could cover the hole, if only with a blanket, but he dared not move or go near it, even though Gandalf seemed to be asleep.
After an hour he rose up and came over to Pippin.
The last thing that Pippin saw, as sleep took him, was a dark glimpse of the old wizard huddled on the floor, shielding a glowing chip in his gnarled hands between his knees. 
But even as they retreated, and before Pippin and Merry had reached the stair outside, a huge orc-chieftain, almost man-high, clad in black mail from head to foot, leaped into the chamber behind him his followers clustered in the doorway. 
Lead the way, Gimli, he said, Pippin and Merry next, straight on and up the stair beyond the door!
What did you see, said Pippin to Sam, but Sam was too deep in thought to answer.
Whatever it may be, said Pippin, they will be marvellous trees indeed if they can offer any rest at night, except to birds, I cannot sleep on a perch!
And soon afterwards Merry and Pippin clambered up on to the high flet, they were out of breath and seemed rather scared.
Pippin went on talking for a while, I hope, if I do go to sleep in this bed-loft, that I shan't roll off, he said.
Of the hobbits Pippin proved the best for he was sure-footed, and he walked over quickly, holding only with one hand but he kept his eyes on the bank ahead and did not look down. 
What did you blush for, Sam, said Pippin, you soon broke down, anyone would have thought you had a guilty conscience, I hope it was nothing worse than a wicked plot to steal one of my blankets.
Are these magic cloaks, asked Pippin, looking at them with wonder.
Then Pippin, who sat in the bow looking back, caught a queer gleam in his eye, as he peered forward gazing at Frodo. 
We can't leave Frodo, Pippin and I always intended to go wherever he went, and we still do. 
We must stop him, said Pippin, and that is what he is worrying about, I am sure he knows we shan't agree to his going east. 
Imagine it, going off to Mordor alone, Pippin shuddered, but the dear silly old hobbit, he ought to know that he hasn't got to ask, he ought to know that if we can't stop him, we shan't leave him.
Stop him, don't let him go, cried Pippin.
Well, I wish Frodo would screw himself up and come back, and let us get it over, said Pippin, this waiting is horrible, surely the time is up.
But where did he go, where is he, cried Pippin, he's been away ages now.
Merry and Pippin had followed, and were already disappearing westward into the trees by the shore, shouting.
